---
layout: post
title: Use this secret from world-class surgeons to become a top 1% learner.
date: 26-10-2021
categories: []
tag: [30daywritingchallenge]
---

Don't feel like you're learning much from your mentors? You could be the problem.

I asked veteran surgeons who have trained hundreds of novices what they thought were the crucial traits of their top-performing learners and **their answers were surprising**. I expected the usual ones along the lines of " having steady hands" or "having a good knowledge of anatomy". Consistently, their responses weren't about having steely nerves or the actual skill of surgery itself.

Instead, their answers converged on this one meta-skill that I believe applies to any learning endeavor.

## Signalling that you're open to feedback.

The secret is that the best learners **signal that they are open to feedback.**

Feedback is the mechanism through which people can help you master your craft. By signaling you're open to it, you lower the threshold for someone to give you constructive criticism, and create space for growth. 

In the example of surgery, you want to be told when there is a 1% improvement gain to be made in your technique, not when you've made a mistake and things are going wrong. This applies to any skill like writing, programming, surfing - you name it.

## Make it easy to be your mentor.

**It's your responsibility to get good mentors to invest in your growth.**

Imagine you're teaching someone a skill, or just trying to help them along with their career. It's satisfying if you watch someone absorb your tips, address their flaws, and improve. It's not very satisfying if your advice is ignored or if the person is indifferent.

Worse yet, imagine if you gave this someone well-meaning, firm, but honest criticism, and instead you were accused of being too critical. You would feel awful, wouldn't you? You were just trying to help. You may well think it's easier just to smile and nod than to try and give real feedback next time. Whilst bullying and harassment are never okay, you have to understand that the pendulum has swung the other way. **Even the kindest, most well-meaning of people are worried that their criticisms get taken the wrong way.** 

To counteract this, you have to signal an openness to listening to feedback. When it comes to mastering your craft, keep your ego small so people worry less about upsetting you, and can focus on helping you get better.

‍


